.TH "vantaged" "8" "Jul 20, 2009" "UCLA/CSU NetSec" "Vantages"
.\"
.\" vantaged manual
.\"
.SH "NAME"
.LP
.B vantaged
\- A daemon that will work to verify DNSSEC keys.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.B vantaged
.RB [ \-c 
.IR cfgfile ]
.RB [ \-r 
.IR runs ]
.RB [ \-p 
.IR pidfile ]
.RB [ \-o 
.IR logfile ]
.RB [ \-g ]
.RB [ \-u 
.IR user ]
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.B vantaged
Vantages is a general framework for doing distributed
monitoring and actuation.  The framework centers around a
single daemon (called vantaged) that is designed to be run on
an operational system.  Vantages stores all of its data in a
SQLite database and runs an embedded web-server for
administration and peering.  Though Vantages is a generic
framework, its current applications focus on operational
issues surrounding DNSSEC.  In this context, the daemon hosts
several different operations and can be configured to help
maintain DNSSEC operations.  The following is a short
description of the applications in Vantages, and section 5
(Running Vantages) of the README discusses them in more detail.

The first application is called ``D-Sync'' and it monitors the
secure delegation state between a child zone's DNSKEY(s) and
the parent zone's DS record(s) for that child.  D-Sync uses a
state-engine to track consistency during DNSKEY rollovers and
DS record updates and alerts operators to various events.

The second Vantages application is called the ``DNSKEY
learning and verification'' system.  This application tracks
the DNSKEYs for a set of DNSSEC zones that an operator may
specify.  The current collection procedures can be over DNS or
by scraping DNSKEYs off of web pages with custom Perl scripts.
Each DNSKEY source (HTTP or DNS) is specified by a URL and is
periodically polled (once a day by default).  After learning
the keys for zones, this application uses a list of
user-configured ``friends'' (other vantage daemons) to verify
the consistency of the values seen.  The validity of the keys
is determined based on consistency rules discussed below. Keys
that are ``confirmed'' are then entered into a BIND-style
trusted keys file that can be directly used by unbound or BIND
resolvers.  This application can also be configured to use
libpcap to automatically learn the DNS zones to monitor.
.P
.SH "OPTIONS"
The options are:
.TP
.B \-c <configure file>
This file overrides the default location of the config file (/etc/vantaged.conf)
.TP
.B \-r <runs>
The number of loops before the daemons will exit.
.TP
.B \-p <log file>
a file to contain the PID of the daemon process.
.TP
.B \-o <log file>
a file to contain the output of the daemon process
.TP
.B \-g
Run the daemon in the foreground.
.TP
.B \-u <user>
Drop permissions to this user after init.
.TP
.B \-l
The output message logging level.
DEBUG | INFO | WARNING | ERROR | CRITICAL
.TP
.B \-h
Display a helpful reminder of this information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIvantaged.conf\fR, 
\fIdnsfunnel\fR,
\fIdnskey-grab\fR.
.SH "AUTHORS"
vantaged was developed by
.B Eric 
.B Osterweil
and has benefited greatly from the assistance of 
.B Ben
.B Tuchscher,
.B Brendan
.B Sheridan,
and
.B Dave
.B Oko
.SH "CONTACT"
tools@netsec.colostate.edu
